---
layout:    post
title:     "To grow"
date:      2014-01-03 16:00:00
permalink: "/to-grow"
---

It's been a while. I'm still quite young but I started to see things in a different way. I've decided to write down what changed my mind last November, so I chose ghost as platform because [Collis convinced me](http://inside.envato.com/why-we-chose-ghost-to-take-you-behind-the-scenes-at-envato/).

In the past, I would have bad feelings about people getting seniority when I believed they didn't deserve it. Today I think otherwise. It's not that I don't care, it's that I see it from another perspective.

I am thankful for those who mentored me the right way, by expecting the best out of me. I stopped expecting the same from everyone. We are all different beings and we have different needs. I don't care anymore if you're ready for your next role.

Everything is a challenge and life gives them before we're ready to handle them. Quite like to what my 2013 has been and what my 2014 could be.

After thinking a lot on [maturity](http://www.tomasdev.com.ar/web-dev/about-seniority-and-engineering-developers) and improving my soft skills (which has always been the hardest part for me,) last year I "earned" my senior job title while working in R/GA. But that wasn't enough. Being a senior developer is more than just your brand new signature.

And being leader is far beyond. It's about being an example for others, both new hires and current coworkers. I have had the chance to work with a variety of leaders and I always got the resulting product quality accepted by clients. I have never missed a delivery date or push to production.

Self-demand is not always a good thing. Especially when you set high expectations. What matters is never losing the focus and stay on the path you believe in. Ambition can take you somewhere nice or [not so nice](http://signalvnoise.com/posts/3547-ambition-can-be-poison), but pride takes you nowhere.

One must accept their own mistakes, live with the decisions made and try to see positivity in every single thing. Move forward and keep growing, improving oneself. I can admit I received some really good advices from people I never expected from.

To grow is necessary to do, to talk, to teach but also to understand, to listen, to learn. Think. Think twice. Think one more time.